---
title: Lost in Layers
describe: Smooth brain thoughts on cakes and software.
---

# Layers

I first started thinking about software in terms of layers after reading [swyx's
post](https://www.swyx.io/collapsing-layers/) a couple years ago. I'm a very
visual person — art major 👋 — so condensing meaning into powerful (like contain
a lot of meaning, idk a word for this) words or imagery is super helpful for me.

I was thinking (and tweeting insufferably) about this
[recently](https://twitter.com/estrattonbailey/status/1468264408719802377?s=20).

> thinking about how the web is basically three browsers running on three operating systems running on three protocols

I kinda went off the rails later in the thread, but I kinda think it's all
related, so maybe not really.

**My point is** that the world runs on a tower-of-babel made of software. Layers
collapse all the time, but we continue to build up. When's it gonna fail?

### 1. Operating systems

We've been running with the same 3 operating systems for about 20 years. I don't
know the half of it, but I know that various estimates put Windows at ~50M lines
of code, macOS at ~90M, and Linux at
[28M](https://www.linux.com/news/linux-in-2020-27-8-million-lines-of-code-in-the-kernel-1-3-million-in-systemd/).

A lot goes into that, especially drivers for all the different hardware out
there, so I'm sure that most of it is needed. But I do think that even a smooth
brain like me could hypothesize that maybe we've got an issue with
driver/firmware interoperability and general software bloat. [Actually smart
people are thinking about this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XbBzSSvT_P0).

We need to break down the incumbent gatekeeping of OSs and hardware/firmware.

### 2. Browsers might die

Browsers are kind of a operating system running inside another operating system.
Truthfully, I think there there are even more OS layers to that cake.

The portability that DOM and HTTP bring needs to be reimplemented at a lower
level, just inside user-space of an OS.

[Urbit](https://urbit.org/) I think is leading the way here, delivery
peer-to-peer applications running atop a thin kernel layer. Programs in this
model could be as simple as a calculator, or as complex as another operating
system entirely, if I understand correctly.

And hypertext was designed for documents. We're out here tryna build native-like
applications and holding onto Moore's Law by a thread.

Describing a UI, networking, persistent storage logic, etc could probably be
rewritting in Rust or similar, and compiled to native code. Guessing people are
working on this but don't have any links atm. I hope to fill this in sometime.

### 3. Gaps emerge

More open, readily-available ways to compose hardware and software will mean
faster, lower energy products. Carrying around entire PCs in our pockets might
seem silly at this point: why pack an entire desktop operating system with a
mobile skin into such a large (I know, _pretty small_, but still) brick we
forget at home half the time.

Energy wil go down, speed will go up, size can also probably go down. I think
we'll see devices decompose into smaller more specified use cases that all
comunicate as one. We kinda see this already with Google Glass (RIP), smart
watches, etc. More of that.

### 4. New compute

I think crypto and web3 will play a role as well. I'm still hesitant to say a
large one, but it's an entirely new paradigm that feels like a toy, and that's
[typically a good thing](https://cdixon.org/2010/01/03/the-next-big-thing-will-start-out-looking-like-a-toy).
But definitely public ledger stuff like finance, plus auth, identity, and
ownership models.

### 5. Whats next

No fucken idea, mate. But I have this hunch that it'll be important to know how
to land on my feet when (if) stuff starts to break down and there are
opportunities to clear new paths for hardware and software. And staying smooth
brained at the top of this stack of layers ain't gonna cut it.

I need to spend more time reading and learning. I think my 5-10 year goal right
now is to contribute to a kernel. Shorter term, definitely get into hardware.
Definitely learn some Rust, maybe some C for fun.

Someone please [tweet at me](https://twitter.com/estrattonbailey/) and tell me
I'm a dumbass.

### P.S.

**2021-12-20**

Small visualization idea for where I think we could get to with a new mode of
programming user-land applications. I'm aware I'm probably incredibly naive
about this.

```
~~~   b  a  r  e    m  e  t  a  l   ~~~
          |                 |
          v                 v
       kernel             kernel
          |                 |
          v                 |
      user-land             |
          |                 |
          v                 |
       browser              |
          |                 |
          v                 v
       web app           new mode
```

**2021-12-20**

But then, it's true that computers are getting faster (Moore's Law might
be slowing down though) and hardware cheaper. If all that continues, what's the
motivation for optimizing layers so far down the stack that we take them for
granted? Might as well throw an entire OS/browser at it as long as it runs Well
Enough™.

At their lowest level, computers are mechanical. Code written 50 years ago will
still run today. So maybe we just pave over ancient Rome for a while longer.
