---
title: "Information density in language and memes"
description: "Being able to convey meaning in a few choice words, or a single
image, is truly powerful."
---

# Information density in language and memes

One of the most fascinating things about language to me is that words can both
create meaning and contain meaning. Sometimes both.

A sentence of words can describe something like: a literary genre that focuses
on the psychological and moral growth of the protagonist from childhood to
adulthood (coming of age), in which character change is important.

Or you could use a single word: Bildungsroman.

The German language is somewhat famous for packing a relatively large amount of
context and cultural implications into single words.

In English, we don't often use larger compound words like this (is there a term
of them?), though like Bildungsroman, they sometimes find there way into our
common lexicon.

And words do contain inherent power. Take syllogistic logic for example.

- All men are mortal
- Socrates is a man
- Therefore, Socrates is mortal

It's clear that "[the] validity of the argument is determined solely by the
logical structure. The logical words — “all,” “is,” are,” and “therefore” — are
doing all the work." - [cdixon.org](https://cdixon.org/2017/02/20/aristotle-computer)

### Information density

Memes — from [_memetic_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Memetics) — are also
powerful in this sense. New meme formats are created every day from random
cultural artifacts like photos or [even
poetry](https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/this-is-just-to-say/photos). People layer
on meaning by adding words, and even mashing up multiple meme formats into new
images or wordplay entirely.

Someone who's unfamiliar with the core meme, its consituent parts, and its
evolution over time, may not fully grasp the depths of meaning contained in
these "compound" memes. [I'll find a good example of this and add it here
sometime.]

Slang does the same thing.

From "Baby Boomers", we now have
["Zoomers"](https://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=Zoomer) — Gen-Z,
raised as fast-paced tech-natives — and
[increasingly](https://twitter.com/search?q=doomerism) I see more references to
["Doomers"](https://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=Doomer), who are
people from multiple generations who are pessimistic about the world's future.

It would seem that platforms like Tiktok are pushing language and units of
cultural exchange forward faster than ever before. No
[cap](https://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=cap). A lot of people dismiss
movements like this, but I think it's important to keep up.

Language and memes are culture. Culture influences how we communicate and think
as a society.

### Innate power

Being able to convey meaning in a few choice words, or a single image, is truly
powerful. The information density can be so high. There's probably a ceiling
there: words and images can only contain so many bits of data. However, there's
room for infinite variation within those confines.

Learning new words and phrases, or new modes like memes, not only increases
velocity of communication, but also thought. Being able to conceptualize more
with less is an incredibly useful thing.

### P.S.

**2021-12-21**

Just had an even headier thought: if we continue to increase information density
intra-word, it follows that information density can increase inter-word. With
more dense meaning, we can fit more information in our collective and personal
memory.
