---
title: A Christmas Story
description: A short story about the magic of Christmas.
date: 2024-01-07
---

> I was back home over the holidays and finally went through some old boxes. I
found this old story I wrote for a class in college 12+ years ago. Pretty
dark for me, even then, and kinda nonsensical, but I thought it was fun enough
to be worth digitizing and sharing.

# A Christmas Story

It is the 164th day after christmas and I am sitting in my cell with the taste
of cranberries in my mouth. Every day is cranberries, gelatinous in their slime.
They come in by the truckload, overstock of the grocery stores, the product of
overproduction on the part of the company that makes them and shortness of
demand on the part of the consumers. I wouldn't eat them, but for the taste of
the food we are served otherwise, which is equally as appalling. The combined
flavor is too much, but enough to keep my mind occupied for a short while. At
least it's better than fruitcake, I tell myself. We've all heard the stories of
transferred inmates from other production camps, the ones where they make the
food people feel is needed on the shelves but that almost no one eats. There
they get the first loads of overstock product of their hands, now fuel to
continue the process. Here we only get cranberries. The fruitcake is burned for
heat.

From my cell, I see out the large plate glass windows to the production facility
and beyond that to the packaging and distribution centers. The windows are large
to allow as much light as possible to come into the Hold. This far north we're
lucky to get a fews hours of sunlight a day, and keeping the cost of heating and
lighting down is paramount, not that we get much of either. I can still see
workers making their way back to their holds from the cafeteria, hidden from
this viewpoint beyond the distribution center, all wearing the uniform of a
worker: green boots made from recycled fake christmas trees and wreaths;
brownish pants of recycled nonsense; a green coat, the outer material made at
the same camp as the boots and stuffed with shredded wrapping paper; and hat of
more of the same thing. Cold as it is outside, we generally leave the uniform on
at all times. The combined rustling of it's wrapping paper stuffing and the
tinsel stuffing of our blankets was almost unbearable.

I go and sit down on the edge of my bed and repeatedly run my index and middle
finger over the splintered edge of the squat maple bookshelf. It's comforting to
me to feel the imperfection over and over again. My last cellmate caused the
splintering, broke of a whole corner actually. He didn't like wood, thought it
was unnatural. I've worn it mostly smooth after that first cautious touch I made
that day, fascinated at how the material is made of small fibers that make up
the grain that make up the wood and make it strong. I can only imagine how one
would assemble something as sturdy when I can see no interlocking pieces or
evidence of glue. It must be incredibly old.

My grandfather could have told me how it was made, I'm sure. I used to love to
sit with him and listen to the same stories his grandfather told him as a boy.
He must have been well over 10 years old, but still strong enough to pick me up
and to laugh. He died soon after, young for his age and not old enough to go.
Years later I was surprised to learn from various books, the few old enough that
still exist outside of private collections, that dying at age 136 would have
been absurd only 100 years ago, when the average life expectancy was somewhere
around 80. I've heard that it's about the same now, actually, but the
statisticians aren't allowed to publish the number of suicides.

The bookshelf holds only two books of interest to me: one is a collection of
British plays and the other is a book called the Bible. The first reminds me of
my mother and the second helps me sleep. My mother was a college grad, creative
writing major, and she loved the theater. We used to go to plays in the city
when I was younger. She would dress up and take my hand and not let go until we
had reached the theater. The scent of her perfume transferred from the touch of
our hands would lull me to sleep when I was a young child.

I pick up the worn volume and turn it over in my hands. It's the old kind of
binding, classic, almost like a tight fabric is glued to the board underneath.
It's frayed and somewhat fuzzy and it tugs on the rough, caloused skin of my
hands. I open it to the bookmark, _The Importance of Being Earnest_. It was the
last play I saw with my mother. She hated it and so I hated it. Not that I
understood why at the time. All she ever said about it was that she goes to
plays ot escape reality, not watch it.

But then she died. Was killed, rather. A riot, complete with burning santas. My
father drove me home from the hospital to our small two bedroom apartment. It
could barely be considered furnished, but I loved it dearly despite the fact,
especially the wood floors. I used ot get splinters all the time, til I decided
that wearing shoes could solve the problem. I never hated the floor for its age,
though. It made the most delightful squeaking sounds. Dreadful and delightful

Those were the last sounds I heard my father make. Right after I love you and
during his last step before the floor turned to carpet outside the door. I never
heard his name mentioned again.

I was 17 when I took part in my first riot, a little under a year after I lost
my parents. A car exploded and glass embedded itself in my left thigh just below
the hip and between my last two ribs. We couldn't go the hospitals, our faces
were public, so I still walk with a limp and have trouble breathing. It's worse
when it's cold. That's why I moved up here, I joke. Had to keep up the christmas
spirit, we all joke. Every day is cranberries here.

I've read Earnest a few times since and I understand now why my mother hated it.
It was life: fake and broken. I used to say it would never get this bad. I dealt
with 34% unemployment, the absurd socioeconomic gap, and my friends and
neighbors living in poverty with smiles on their faces. But then independent
groups, while there was still such a thing, released the Numbers.

The Numbers changed everything. They became the myth, the truth, the curse word
that became a slap on the wrist with handcuffs and a bag over your head. The
Numbers went way back. Generations. We know there was a recession, worse than
any before. Someone somewhere knows why, but they're probably eating cranberries
right now too. At any rate, somewhere someone thought that the collective psyche
of the States was the cause. The christmas spirit had been spreading slowly for
decades and soon it was decided it was the cure. Christmas all the time.
Christmas everywhere.

People bought. People gifted. The economy thrived. Millionaires were made
overnight. People were happy. Unemployment went down. Homelessness was
eliminated. Monopolies made for cheaper goods and were allowed. Recycling became
the biggest export of the States. Packaging the biggest import. Wrapping paper
was as valuable as gold. The petroleum needed to make it sent prices soaring.
Shipping and travel became impossible. Oil resources worldwide dried up. The war
started. The lines between the manufacturers and the States became more and more
hazy. The word "power" exited the mouths on the TV and manifested itself in high
ROI. Unemployment soared. People were devastated. Millions went hungry. Millions
more died or killed themselves. The economy collapsed. Gifting became regifting.
Buying became obsolete. The outward appearance of happiness became more
important than putting food on the table. The economy collapsed. People stopped
having kids. People stopped going to school.

When the cost of importing goods became too high, so did the cost of recycling.
Waste was disposed of. Twelve short years folowing the Second Recession, marine
life was mostly extinct. Drinking water was deemed unsafe in urban areas.
Disease became epidemic in many parts of the world. Somehow, some semblance of
life remained for most humans, however. Routine became routine, as it does, and
though the fear of Santa Claus coming down the chimney at any second became as
real as clowns are terrifying, causing childhood disorders of all kinds, the
emptiness society concealed became the only thing holding it together. It had
held for over 100 years, but everything has a breaking point. That's when I
threw my first brick through a Macy's window.

Now it's cranberries. Cranberries and toys, for that's what we do here, here in
the North. We supply society's poison, the very thing we all fought to destroy,
at costs low enough to keep the collective shit of the world together. For now
at least. For now I will sit and polish the bookcase in the corner with my own
hands. For now I will read as one age's farce becomes another age's spitting
image. For now I will remember.

_I remember the frosts vividly. It was beautiful in the mornings when on my way
to school I would walk across the grass field in front of my house, my backpack
full and my mothers goodbyes behind me. The way it leached the color and life
from each blade, soothing each in preparation for what was to come. It would
crunch and depress beneath my feet and I would leave tracks so that I could see
where I came from. On clear mornings I would stop and listen to the soft
rustling made as the many lives I had trod on pushed back towards the morning
sun and pretend I was the only one around. I remember the intense concentration
I felt on those mornings, the distraction, and the detachment._

For now I will remember this. For now I will live.
