---
title: Tinkering, Systems Design, and Our Digital Future
description: A cover letter for Bluesky
date: 2023-05-24
---

# Tinkering, Systems Design, and Our Digital Future

> This page is private and unlisted. Please do not share publicly.

I grew up in a very small town in Iowa. My parents are avid DIY-ers, and were
happy to set me up with a workbench and tools from a young age. I liked to
tinker, dismantling RC cars and carving propellers from wood with a pocket
knife. That curiosity to independently explore lead me to pick up design and dev
late in college, and ultimately make the leap from my Midwestern roots to a web
agency in NYC.

Since then, I've worked with and helped found web agencies, freelanced in PHP
and Node, built products in React and Python, and continued to tinker on the
side, among other things. I enjoy building things, and I am happy spending most
of my time busy with some project or another. My latest offline project has been
founding the collaborative workspace, Side By Side, where I also collect and
refurbish bicycles. Online, my GitHub continues to expand with explorations,
libraries, and frameworks, like Hypercast and Svbstrate.

This mix of professional work and side projects has increasingly pulled me into
the depths of TypeScript, testing, and backend systems design. A great deal of
my recent experience has been refactoring and leading the architecture of
frontend React and React Native codebases. But in the last 3-4 years, I've spent
countless hours in the backends of these codebases and with their respective
teams, and I've found solving problems at-scale and full-stack fuels my
curiosity more than ever. This growing interest has sent me exploring everything
from distributed systems and real-time socket communication, to embedded systems
programming and public key cryptography. Unpacking these layers of abstraction,
built up over years, and understanding how and why technologies and protocols
work together is a challenge I find deeply rewarding. I've only scratched the
surface and I want to go deeper.

The internet is in a different place than when I started. I suppose older web
generations would say the same of the paradigm and socio-political shifts they
witnessed. I'm looking for a place where my curiosity and drive can provide
value. I'm looking for a place to explore and build what's next, with serious,
inclusive people who want to make a real positive impact on our digital lives. I
think Bluesky might be the place.
